---
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-paint-roller
title: Themes
description: Custom the appearance of your Docus documentation thanks to Nuxt UI
  flexible theming.
---

Docus is built on top of Nuxt UI and takes full advantage of Tailwind CSS v4, CSS variables, and the Tailwind Variants API to offer a flexible and scalable theming system.

::prose-tip
For a full overview of Nuxt UI theming, check out the Nuxt UI documentation.
::

## **Customize colors**

Docus uses pre-configured color aliases that are used to style components and power the `color` props across the UI.

Each badge below represents a default alias:

- :u-badge{label="primary" variant="outline"}
  [(Default: green)]{.text-xs.text-muted}

  → Main brand color, used as the default color for components.
- :u-badge{color="secondary" label="secondary" variant="outline"}
  [(Default: blue)]{.text-xs.text-muted}

  → Secondary color to complement the primary color.
- :u-badge{color="success" label="success" variant="outline"}
  [(Default: green)]{.text-xs.text-muted}

  → Used for success states.
- :u-badge{color="info" label="info" variant="outline"}
  [(Default: blue)]{.text-xs.text-muted}

  → Used for informational states.
- :u-badge{color="warning" label="warning" variant="outline"}
  [(Default: yellow)]{.text-xs.text-muted}

  → Used for warning states.
- :u-badge{color="error" label="error" variant="outline"}
  [(Default: red)]{.text-xs.text-muted}

  → Used for form error validation states.
- :u-badge{color="neutral" label="neutral" variant="outline"}
  [(Default: slate)]{.text-xs.text-muted}

  → Neutral color for backgrounds, text, etc.

You can customize these colors globally by updating the `app.config.ts` file under the `ui.colors` key:

```ts [app.config.ts]
export default defineAppConfig({
  ui: {
    colors: {
      primary: 'blue',
      neutral: 'zinc'
    }
  }
})
```

## **Customize components**

Beyond colors, all Nuxt UI components can be themed globally via `app.config.ts`.

You can override any component’s appearance by using the same structure as the component’s internal theme object.

For example, to change the font weight of all buttons:

```ts [app.config.ts]
export default defineAppConfig({
  ui: {
    button: {
      slots: {
        base: 'font-bold'
      }
    }
  }
})
```

In this example, the `font-bold` class will override the default `font-medium` class on all buttons.

::prose-note{to="https://ui.nuxt.com/components/button#theme"}
To explore the available theme options for each component, refer to the **Theme** section in their respective Nuxt UI documentation page.
::
